Alright, it's time for a challenge so
this is the seconds and minutes
challenge. So the challenge is to create
a method called get duration string with
two parameters so the first parameter
should be minutes and the second
parameter should be seconds that's the
names now they're both going to be int
and you should validate that the first
parameter minutes is greater than equal
to 0 and you need to validate that the
second parameter seconds is greater than
equal to 0 and less than equal to 59.
Now the method should return the string
invalid value if either of the above are
not true. Now if the parameters are
valid then calculate how many hours
minutes and seconds equal the minutes
and seconds passed to this method and
return that value as a string in the
format XXh YYm ZZs where XX
remote represents the number of hours, YY
the number of minutes and ZZ the number
of seconds. So once you've done that
create a second method of the same name
but with only one parameter seconds, so
you validate that it's greater than
equal to zero and return invalid value
as a string if that isn't true. Now if it
is valid then calculate how many minutes
are in the seconds value and then call
the other overloaded method passing the
correct minutes and seconds calculated
so that that method the first version of
the overloaded method can calculate it
correctly, you then want to call both the
methods to print value to the console.
Now a few tips here firstly use an int
or long for your number data types is
probably a good idea you probably know
this already but one minute is 60
seconds and one hour equals 60 minutes
or 3600 seconds methods should both be
static as we've used previously so in
other words create your method as you
normally have done so far in the course
and it's a bonus for the input 61
minutes the output should be 0 1 hours 0
1 minute 0 0 seconds but it's okay if
it's one hour one minute zero seconds in
other words to be having up those
leading zeros as a tip there consider
using if-else to achieve that. Alright
and then you want to create a new
so program and call it seconds and
minutes challenge
Alright, so pause the video now and go
ahead and complete the challenge and
when you've done that come back and see
what I've done and we'll go through it
step by step, so pause the video now.
Alright so I hope you manage to have
some success with the challenge so
let's now go through it step by step to
get this working. Alright so what we're
going to do is start with the challenge
and I've got a challenge text file I'm
just going to share that on the screen
now and any time that time I want to go
back and check you can actually refer to
that and that text file was in the
resources section of the video just to
make it a bit easier for you to follow
along step by step. Alright so first
things first you can see that I've
already created a seconds a minute
challenge and I've already created a
class called main and I've already
created the method for name so that we
can test our code. So the first step we
need to do is go back and create a
method get duration string let's go
ahead and do that, so I'm going to call
that private static string get duration
string parenthesis are we going to use
a long here so long minutes and long
seconds if you use an int there
that's okay as well. Alright so that's
our method firstly and by the way if you
haven't added public or private here
the code will still work but later on
we're going to discuss the public key
word and other modifiers that you can
use with methods so I'm just going to
put the word private back in there but
we'll talk about that a lot in detail as
we progress through the course. Alright,
so we've got to make the string return
something that represents the hours
minutes and seconds or an error if the
validation fails, so what we want to do
first is start out with some validation
so we need to make sure if you recall
from the challenge the minutes has to be
greater than or equal to zero, we need to
make sure that the seconds is in the
range of being zero or greater but less
than or equal to 59, so I'm gonna use
some info logic and also use the or
operator as well to chain together some
conditions to do all the checking on one
line and you'll see that as I type that
through now. Let's go ahead
and do that I'm gonna put if two left
parenthesis minutes is less than zero,
you closed the first parenthesis and we
use or and another parenthesis seconds
is less than zero closing parenthesis
and or again parenthesis basically
seconds is greater than fifty nine and
then two closing parenthesis and if that
is the case, we need to return the error
message which in our case was a return
invalid value, so you can see what I've
done there the first part of the
condition is checking minutes less than
zero so if either of those three
conditions there a return is true then
we're returning invalid value so if
minutes is less than zero or seconds is
less than zero or seconds is greater
than fifty nine and if you've done that
over a couple of lines to do the same
thing that's fine, this is just a concise
way of actually achieving the same
validation, so at this point if we get
down here to line fourteen we know that
the the both four minutes and the
seconds variables have gotten valid
values in them and we can start assuming
that and work with it.
So let's now start by converting the
total minutes that were passed to this
method two hours so we can do that by
typing long and hours equals minutes
divided by 60 so that's how many hours
if any there are in the minutes that
have been passed to this method, so now
we have to calculate the remaining
minutes so minutes were converted to
hours but if we have for example 61
minutes that's actually one hour in one minute
so therefore we need to calculate how
many minutes cannot fit into one hour so
what we can do to do that is to type in
long remaining minutes is equal to
minutes use the remainder operator sixty
that so many Mets are now remaining and
from that point now we can now return
our data so we could type return hours plus h
space plus and h was in double quotes
from maining minutes plus an m for
that in a space and double quotes plus
seconds plus an S on the other line.
Alright so that should be our method rip
correctly written now before we write
the next overloaded version of that
method let's actually test this out
first, so what I'm going to do is I come
back up here to their main method and do
a s out and type it's going to be get
duration string and the two parameters
we're going to pass 65 for the number of
minutes and 45 for the number of seconds.
So let's actually run that and make sure
that it works, you can see we quickly got
the results there 1 hour 5 minutes 45
seconds, let's just move this down to the
bottom. Okay, so so far so good and by the
way don't be confused by this code here
in parentheses this is just calling the
method get duration string first then
the return value from that method will
be the parameter for the println method
so it's just a shortcut way to get that
happening all on one line if you've done
it over two lines perhaps you've
assigned the value of get duration
string to a string variable and then
you're outputting the string variable
with a print line on the next line
that's fine as well
one - you get the same results this
example we should have got one hour five
minutes and 45 seconds and that's what we've got,
so before we deal with the bonus part
though let's finish the other method
first so what we had to do was write
another overloaded method and obviously
an overloaded method is one that's got
the same name, I mean have only one
parameter in this case seconds, so let's
do that I'm gonna come down here and
type private you don't worry too much
about private or public here just top it
in for now and if you haven't used
private or public that's fine as well
because we'll be explaining that in
detail later in the course so we need a
string here and it's going to be get
duration string again but this time the
parameters are different we're going to
got one parameter here and it's going to
be long seconds so just close down the
button whenever now
in this case we've got to check that the
parameter seconds is greater than zero
that's a simple test there and what we
can just do is type if parentheses
seconds is less than zero that's the
case we've got to return our error
message returned in double quotes
invalid value all right so that's that
done so notice here that we're repeating
the same string in both methods which is
invalid string for the time being that's
okay and I'm referring to the code on
line 11 and also the code on line 21 but
later in the course I'll show you how to
deal with situations like this and use
something called constants but we're
only in the course I will just continue
as it is right now we'll just get our
functionality working and once we've got
it working we can then optimize our
solution so here we've checked there to
see both of the seconds are less than
zero and that means that the it's going
to be an invalid time that we can't
calculate because we can't calculate a
time you're negative that's a negative
number so we've got that returning so if
it gets down to this line here in our
line 24 we know that time we've got a
valid amount of seconds to deal with so
what we now need to do here is very
similar to what we did in the first
method in this method there we've just
got seconds so what we can do is still
convert minutes to seconds so let's go
ahead and do that then we'll time long
minutes is equal to seconds divided by
60 so that's how many minutes we've got
then long remaining seconds well that's
equal to seconds then the remainder
operator 60 so if now calculated the
minutes from the seconds and then
calculated the remaining minutes again
using the remainder operator as you can
see and stored that in remaining in the
in remaining seconds variable so now
we've got minutes and remaining seconds
all we need to do is call the first
method instead of repeating the same
code from the first method we can just
call it so what we can actually do there
is we can type return get duration
string and in parentheses we can pass
minutes and seconds there's going to be
those lines up so here what we've done
is we've used to return keyword and the
method call on the same line and again
if you've done this over two lines
perhaps you've saved the value of the
call to get generations
turning into a string on one line and
then printed it out and returned that
variable on another line that's fine
we've just I've just made a concise here
and done two things on the one line so
again what's happening is that the
method call will be called first and
then the return statement will return
the value that it got from that method
call so don't think that we're returning
the method itself because we're not
doing that
we'll return what we were returning is
the return value from that method and
again even though I mention it another
way of doing this would have been just
to put string x equals remaining get
these get duration string the return X
that would have worked just as well so
we consolidated into one line by doing
it this way with returning get your
registry indirectly all right so that's
almost it there's only the bonus left
but before we work on the bonus part
which we'll do in the next video
let's test what we've done here and make
sure that that's working so what we're
going to do is come back and then I'm
going to on the next line of output in
the main method we're going to put in
get duration string and we're going to
pass a value of 3 9 4 5 now in general
it's a good idea because we're using longs
to use longs and I haven't really done
that so far but a good idea would be to
actually use an L if your call L was the
indicator in Java for longs to make
sure that it was a long number that
we're using and to be consistent we
could also do that for these previous
lines as well but ok we've got that in
there now, let's actually run the
application and see what happens.
Now that's interesting you can see what's
happened there we've got to the output
the first line of the output down here
down the bottom has got a correct value
if the second line has got invalid value
now can you actually spot what I've
actually done wrong there I'm just going
to close the run window again like
you've seen that code what have we done
wrong there to cause that not to work
well if you look really closely what
we're doing here is were passing minutes
and seconds
so I'm incorrectly passing seconds
instead of remaining seconds and the
problem is that's been passing seconds
to our get duration string and it's
validating to make sure that seconds
cannot be greater than 59 so it's returning
invalid value so that can be an
interesting one to debug you if you do
something like that the solution there
was for me to take a copy of remaining
seconds and return that and not seconds
so now if we run this again you should
find it gives us the right answer and
you can see in that case we got the same result
one hour five minutes and 45 seconds so
with the same result now for both of
them and that's great. Alright so that
finishes the challenge the bonus part is
optional but I want to show you the
solution to the bonus part as well and
we'll do that in the next video.